---
title: "QDFPA - Q&A 1"
date: 2019-02-07
tags: ["Q&A"]
draft: false
---

## Q&A 1

I got quite a few questions about [QDFPA](https://www.luukvanvenrooij.nl/project/qdfpa/) so I thought it would be nice to select a few and make a quick Q&A post.

### Why Brunch and not Webpack?

The project was actually configured to use webpack before I switched to Brunch as a bundler. The main reason why I switched was because of the simplicity of Brunch. It takes little configuration and a few plugins to get it working and a dev server with hot reloading come out of the box. 

Webpack for sure is way more customizable and offers other things like processing of additional assets like CSS and other content but its something I don`t need for this project. 

### Why Maquette and not Vue or React?

I choose Maquette for a the same reason I went for JSS over any other CSS library like SASS or Less. The ability to express my needed UI and styles in JavaScript. No JSX or other type of templates but just simple JavaScript functions.

### Why not use webassembly? 

While I really think webassembly is the future of web/application development, from what I seen so far its to much of a hasle to work with. The tooling pipeline is not easy to use and the supported languages which compile to webassembly, while growing, is not that long jet at the time of writing. Finally as a language JavaScript is currently my favorite one and supports everything I want todo so far with this project.

### You have a roadmap of what you are working on? 

Currently this is my rough roadmap:

- JSON based file to load and store materials for the meshes
- Switch from OBJ to a custom JSON based mesh format. This will also include a simple node script to concert OBJ files to this new format
- Shader VBO cache for all meshes
- Add spot and pointlights to the defered renderer
- Add normal mapping for meshes
- Map and entity system
- Visibility culling using octrees and occlusion queries.

Thats it for now!







